README.md, before:

vagrant-oracle11.2
==================

Vagrant + Oracle Linux 7 + Oracle Database 11g Release 2 (11.2.0.4) シングル環境の簡易セットアップ。

ダウンロード
------------

Oracle Database 11g Release 2 (11.2.0.4)のソフトウェアをMy Oracle Supportからダウンロードし、Vagrantfileと同じディレクトリに展開。展開すると`database`というサブディレクトリになるはず。

* p13390677_112040_Linux-x86-64_1of7.zip
* p13390677_112040_Linux-x86-64_2of7.zip

環境変数の設定
--------------

`dotenv.sample`というファイルを`.env`という名前のファイルにコピーし、必要に応じて内容を書き換える。

```shell
ORACLE_BASE=/u01/app/oracle
ORACLE_CHARACTERSET=AL32UTF8
ORACLE_EDITION=EE
ORACLE_HOME=/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0.4/dbhome_1
ORACLE_PASSWORD=oracle
ORACLE_SID=orcl
```

Vagrant設定
-----------

プロキシを利用する必要がある場合、まずvagrant-proxyconfをインストールし、vagrant-proxyconf用の環境変数を設定しておく。

### ホストがmacOS or Linuxの場合 ###

```console
export http_proxy=http://proxy.example.com:80
export https_proxy=http://proxy.example.com:80
vagrant plugin install vagrant-proxyconf

export VAGRANT_HTTP_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:80
export VAGRANT_HTTPS_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:80
export VAGRANT_FTP_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:80
export VAGRANT_NO_PROXY=localhost,127.0.0.1
```

### ホストがWindowsの場合 ###

```console
SET http_proxy=http://proxy.example.com:80
SET https_proxy=http://proxy.example.com:80
vagrant plugin install vagrant-proxyconf

SET VAGRANT_HTTP_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:80
SET VAGRANT_HTTPS_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:80
SET VAGRANT_FTP_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:80
SET VAGRANT_NO_PROXY=localhost,127.0.0.1
```

セットアップ
------------

`vagrant up`を実行すると、内部的に以下が動く。

* Oracle Linux 7のダウンロードと起動
* Oracle Preinstallation RPMのインストール
* ディレクトリの作成
* 環境変数の設定
* oracleユーザーのパスワード設定
* Oracle Databaseのインストール
* リスナーの作成
* データベースの作成

```console
vagrant up
```

動作確認
--------

ゲストOSに接続する。

```console
vagrant ssh
```

DBに接続し、サンプル表を確認する。

```console
sudo su - oracle
sqlplus system/oracle
SELECT * FROM scott.emp;
```

Author
------

[Shinichi Akiyama](https://github.com/shakiyam)

License
-------

[MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Commit message:

Change README.md from Japanese to English

README.md, after:

vagrant-oracle11.2
==================

Vagrant + Oracle Linux 7 + Oracle Database 11g Release 2 (11.2.0.4) | Simple setup of a single instance database.

Download
--------

Download the Oracle Database 11g Release 2 (11.2.0.4) software from My Oracle Support and extract it to the same directory as the Vagrantfile. It should be a subdirectory named `database`.

* p13390677_112040_Linux-x86-64_1of7.zip
* p13390677_112040_Linux-x86-64_2of7.zip

Set environment variables
-------------------------

Copy the file `dotenv.sample` to a file named `.env` and rewrite the contents as needed.

```shell
ORACLE_BASE=/u01/app/oracle
ORACLE_CHARACTERSET=AL32UTF8
ORACLE_EDITION=EE
ORACLE_HOME=/u01/app/oracle/product/11.2.0.4/dbhome_1
ORACLE_PASSWORD=oracle
ORACLE_SID=orcl
```

Vagrant configuration
---------------------

If you need to use a proxy, first install vagrant-proxyconf and set environment variables for vagrant-proxyconf.

### If the host is macOS or Linux ###

```console
export http_proxy=http://proxy.example.com:80
export https_proxy=http://proxy.example.com:80
vagrant plugin install vagrant-proxyconf

export VAGRANT_HTTP_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:80
export VAGRANT_HTTPS_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:80
export VAGRANT_FTP_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:80
export VAGRANT_NO_PROXY=localhost,127.0.0.1
```

### If the host is Windows ###

```console
SET http_proxy=http://proxy.example.com:80
SET https_proxy=http://proxy.example.com:80
vagrant plugin install vagrant-proxyconf

SET VAGRANT_HTTP_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:80
SET VAGRANT_HTTPS_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:80
SET VAGRANT_FTP_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:80
SET VAGRANT_NO_PROXY=localhost,127.0.0.1
```

Vagrant up
----------

When you run `vagrant up`, the following will work internally.

* Download and boot Oracle Linux 7
* Install the Oracle Preinstallation RPM
* Create directories
* Set environment variables
* Set password for oracle user
* Install Oracle Database
* Create a listener
* Create a database

```console
vagrant up
```

Example of use
--------------

Connect to the guest OS.

```console
vagrant ssh
```

Connect to the database and access the sample table.

```console
sudo su - oracle
sqlplus system/oracle
SELECT * FROM scott.emp;
```

Author
------

[Shinichi Akiyama](https://github.com/shakiyam)

License
-------

[MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
